readme.md, before:

# Awesome Lambda School Lies

A curated list of lies that the Lambda School startup has told its students, along with other sketchy behaviors. Inspired by [awesome-python](https://github.com/vinta/awesome-python).

## How to Contribute

Learn how to contribute here [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/lambda-school-alumni/awesome-lambda-school-lies/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Table of Contents

### Admissions Process Changes and Sketchiness

### Lies About Job Placement Rates

- [Rejection of CIRR Standards](#rejection-of-cirr-standards)
- [Origin of the 86% placement figure](#86-percent-figure)
- [Placement Numbers As Reported](#placement-numbers)
- [Placement Numbers Auditing Methodology](#audit)

### Lies about Ongoing Lawsuits And Government Orders to Cease Operations

- [** Master List of Lambda's Legality per US State **](#master-list-states)
- [California](#california)
- [Utah](#utah)
- [New York](#new-york)
- [North Carolina](#north-carolina)
- [Texas](#texas)
- [EU](#eu)

### Lies About the Curriculum

- [Plagiarism in Curriculum](#plagiarism)
- [Incomplete Curriculum](#incomplete-curriculum)
- [Lack of Job-Readiness](#job-readiness)

### Lies about ISAs

- ["Aligned Interests"](#aligned-interests)
- ["Reselling ISAs"](#reselling-isas)

### Student Horror Stories

Tracks:

- [Web](#web)
- [UX](#ux)
- [Data Science](#data-science)
- [Android](#android)
- [iOS](#ios)

Locations:

- [EU-specific](#eu)

### Instructor Horror Stories

### Lies About Career Support

### Sketchy Behaviors Reported by Employers & Hiring Managers

### Other Sketchy Behaviors

### Lambda School's Founder Austen Allred

- [Twitter Bots](#twitter-bots)
- [Voluntary Homelessness](#voluntary-homelessness)

### [Press](#press)

====================================================================================

### Lies About Job Placement Rates

### Lies about Government Orders to Cease Operations and ISA Legality

#### California

##### California Code

According to [CA Educ Code § 94917 (2017)](https://law.justia.com/codes/california/2017/code-edc/title-3/division-10/part-59/chapter-8/article-12/section-94917/):

> "A note, instrument, or other evidence of indebtedness relating to payment for an educational program is not enforceable by an institution unless, at the time of execution of the note, instrument, or other evidence of indebtedness, the institution held an approval to operate."

Lambda School does not have an approval to operate by the California BPPE. Legal opinion is needed on whether the ISA is valid.

##### California BPPE

The [California Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education (BPPE)](https://www.bppe.ca.gov/) under the Department of Consumer Affairs is a California regulatory agency intended to protect consumers and students from unlicensed activity and resolve student complaints. Lambda is currently unapproved and was ordered to cease enrollment, and was confirmed to be operating illegally as an educational institute by the BPPE.

For information regarding the enforcement of enrollment agreements, refer to Article 11, statute 94902 on page 48 of the California Private Postsecondary Education Act of 2009: https://www.bppe.ca.gov/lawsregs/ppe_act.pdf.

###### Timeline with the CA BPPE

- [(December 5, 2018) BPPE contacts Lambda School and receives no response](https://www.bppe.ca.gov/enforcement/actions/1819150_lambda_abate.pdf): "The BPPE contacted Lambda School on December 5, 2018...requesting information regarding the function of their California campus location. A response was not received."
- [(March 12, 2019) Citation - Assessment of Fine and Order of Abatement](https://www.bppe.ca.gov/enforcement/actions/1819150_lambda_abate.pdf)
- [(July 29, 2019) Appeal of Citation: Citation Affirmed](https://www.bppe.ca.gov/enforcement/actions/1819150_lambda_affirmed.pdf)

On (date?), Austen announces to students in the Announcements channel that Lambda School has been working closely with the BPPE for over a year, which seems to be a lie based on the above timeline. Screenshot of announcement:

(Screenshot)

###### Steps for students to file complaints

|              |                    |
| ------------ | ------------------ |
| Name         | Lambda School      |
| Address      | 250 Montgomery St. |
| Phone number | (415) 262-4219     |
| City         | San Francisco      |
| State        | California         |
| Zip          | 94104              |

Step 1: screenshot and/or document any and all issues encountered during Lambda School, including:

- Staff negligence, chaotic learning environment, disorganized announcements, unanswered technical questions, student or staff bullying, misleading claims, etc.
- Instances of changes being poorly implemented last minute (curriculum, policies, etc.)
- Instances of curriculum marketed on website being scrapped

Step 2: submit a [complaint](https://www.bppe.ca.gov/enforcement/complaint.shtml) to the BPPE:

- [Print and mail complaint form](https://www.bppe.ca.gov/forms_pubs/complaint.pdf)
- [Online complaint form](https://www.dca.ca.gov/webapps/gencomplaint.php)

Step 3: Submit a complaint to the California Attorney General:

- [Print and mail complaint form](https://oag.ca.gov/sites/all/files/agweb/pdfs/contact/business_corpform.pdf)
- [Online complaint form](https://oag.ca.gov/contact/consumer-complaint-against-business-or-company)

### Lies About the Curriculum

### Lies About ISAs

### Student Horror Stories

#### Removal from Slack

- Two UX students reported being removed from the student Slack after simply asking about the withdrawal process, and staff did not answer her questions about ISA cancellation.
- One WEB student reported being removed from Salck after simply asked about the withdrawal process and was on the cusp of the full refund period, and did not receive confirmation from staff whether her ISA was void.
- One WEB student reported being accidentally removed from Slack while being on hiatus due to medical leave, and emails to support@lambdaschool.com were unanswered and they had to tweet at staff.
- One WEB student reported being removed after politely inquiring Student Success staff of why student policies on flex and other academic policies were being changed mid-cohort for students who already started their cohorts.

#### ISA Triggers & Term Ambiguity

- One WEB student reports that their ISA was triggered after getting a customer support job.
- One WEB student reports that their ISA was triggered after switching from the full-time to part-time course.

### Instructor Horror Stories

### Lies About Career Support

### Sketchy Behaviors Reported by Employers & Hiring Managers

### Other Sketchy Behaviors

### Lambda School's Founder Austen Allred

### Press

- [Wired](https://www.wired.com/story/how-we-learn-lambda-income-sharing-agreements/)
- [Business Insider - BPPE](https://www.businessinsider.com/lambda-school-california-state-law-coding-bootcamp-y-combinator-2019-8)
- [Business Insider - Cult](https://www.businessinsider.com/lambda-school-online-coding-bootcamp-y-combinator-cult-2019-10)
- [The Information](https://www.theinformation.com/articles/lambda-schools-growing-pains-big-buzz-student-complaints)
- [Education Dive](https://www.educationdive.com/news/running-without-state-approval-lambda-school-shows-challenge-of-regulating/570906/)
- [The Verge](https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/11/21131848/lambda-school-coding-bootcamp-isa-tuition-cost-free)
- [The Information - Executive Departures](https://www.theinformation.com/briefings/4e8972)
- [The Verge - Edly](https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/12/21135134/lambda-school-students-edly-isa-debt-swapping-partnership-shares-investors)
- [NYMag](https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2020/02/lambda-schools-job-placement-rate-is-lower-than-claimed.html)
- [Bloomberg](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-02-25/investing-in-a-coding-school-graduate-could-get-you-13-a-year)

Commit message:

added precedent for bootcamp fraud

readme.md, after:

# Awesome Lambda School Lies

A curated list of lies that the Lambda School startup has told its students, along with other sketchy behaviors. Inspired by [awesome-python](https://github.com/vinta/awesome-python).

## How to Contribute

Learn how to contribute here [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/lambda-school-alumni/awesome-lambda-school-lies/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Table of Contents

### Admissions Process Changes and Sketchiness

### Lies About Job Placement Rates

- [Rejection of CIRR Standards](#rejection-of-cirr-standards)
- [Origin of the 86% placement figure](#86-percent-figure)
- [Placement Numbers As Reported](#placement-numbers)
- [Placement Numbers Auditing Methodology](#audit)

### Lies about Ongoing Lawsuits And Government Orders to Cease Operations

- [** Master List of Lambda's Legality per US State **](#master-list-states)
- [California](#california)
- [Utah](#utah)
- [New York](#new-york)
- [North Carolina](#north-carolina)
- [Texas](#texas)
- [EU](#eu)

### Lies About the Curriculum

- [Plagiarism in Curriculum](#plagiarism)
- [Incomplete Curriculum](#incomplete-curriculum)
- [Lack of Job-Readiness](#job-readiness)

### Lies about ISAs

- ["Aligned Interests"](#aligned-interests)
- ["Reselling ISAs"](#reselling-isas)

### Student Horror Stories

Tracks:

- [Web](#web)
- [UX](#ux)
- [Data Science](#data-science)
- [Android](#android)
- [iOS](#ios)

Locations:

- [EU-specific](#eu)

### Instructor Horror Stories

### Lies About Career Support

### Sketchy Behaviors Reported by Employers & Hiring Managers

### Other Sketchy Behaviors

### Lambda School's Founder Austen Allred

- [Twitter Bots](#twitter-bots)
- [Voluntary Homelessness](#voluntary-homelessness)

### [Press](#press)

====================================================================================

### Lies About Job Placement Rates

### Lies about Government Orders to Cease Operations and ISA Legality

Lambda School's ISA is in the legal grey zone (need legal opinion). We recommend screenshotting and/or documenting any and all issues encountered during Lambda School for potential legal action, including:

- Staff negligence, chaotic learning environment, disorganized announcements, unanswered technical questions, student or staff bullying, misleading claims, etc.
- Instances of changes being poorly implemented last minute (curriculum, policies, etc.)
- Instances of curriculum marketed on website being scrapped

#### California

Approval to operate: NO (❌)

##### California Code

According to [CA Educ Code § 94917 (2017)](https://law.justia.com/codes/california/2017/code-edc/title-3/division-10/part-59/chapter-8/article-12/section-94917/):

> "A note, instrument, or other evidence of indebtedness relating to payment for an educational program is not enforceable by an institution unless, at the time of execution of the note, instrument, or other evidence of indebtedness, the institution held an approval to operate."

Lambda School does not have an approval to operate by the California BPPE.

##### California BPPE

The [California Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education (BPPE)](https://www.bppe.ca.gov/) under the Department of Consumer Affairs is a California regulatory agency intended to protect consumers and students from unlicensed activity and resolve student complaints. Lambda is currently unapproved and was ordered to cease enrollment, and was confirmed to be operating illegally as an educational institute by the BPPE.

For information regarding the enforcement of enrollment agreements, refer to Article 11, statute 94902 on page 48 of the California Private Postsecondary Education Act of 2009: https://www.bppe.ca.gov/lawsregs/ppe_act.pdf.

###### Timeline with the CA BPPE

- [(December 5, 2018) BPPE contacts Lambda School and receives no response](https://www.bppe.ca.gov/enforcement/actions/1819150_lambda_abate.pdf): "The BPPE contacted Lambda School on December 5, 2018...requesting information regarding the function of their California campus location. A response was not received."
- [(March 12, 2019) Citation - Assessment of Fine and Order of Abatement](https://www.bppe.ca.gov/enforcement/actions/1819150_lambda_abate.pdf)
- [(July 29, 2019) Appeal of Citation: Citation Affirmed](https://www.bppe.ca.gov/enforcement/actions/1819150_lambda_affirmed.pdf)

On (date?), Austen announces to students in the Announcements channel that Lambda School has been working closely with the BPPE for over a year, which seems to be a lie based on the above timeline. Screenshot of announcement:

(Screenshot)

###### File a complaint

Submit a [complaint](https://www.bppe.ca.gov/enforcement/complaint.shtml) to the BPPE:

- [Print and mail complaint form](https://www.bppe.ca.gov/forms_pubs/complaint.pdf)
- [Online complaint form](https://www.dca.ca.gov/webapps/gencomplaint.php)

Submit a complaint to the California Attorney General:

- [Print and mail complaint form](https://oag.ca.gov/sites/all/files/agweb/pdfs/contact/business_corpform.pdf)
- [Online complaint form](https://oag.ca.gov/contact/consumer-complaint-against-business-or-company)

#### Utah

Approval to operate: ❓

#### New York

Approval to operate: ❓

There is a precedent for coding bootcamps getting in trouble for operating without a license. The New York Attorney General [announced a settlement of \$375,000 with Flation School](https://ag.ny.gov/press-release/2017/ag-schneiderman-announces-375000-settlement-flatiron-computer-coding-school) due to operating without a license and making misleading employment claims. Lambda not only has grossly misleading outcome statistics, but also is likely guilty of many more misleading statements and unlicensed behavior throughout the entire school.

### Lies About the Curriculum

### Lies About ISAs

### Student Horror Stories

#### Removal from Slack

- Two UX students reported being removed from the student Slack after simply asking about the withdrawal process, and staff did not answer their questions about ISA cancellation.
- One WEB student reported being removed from Salck after simply asked about the withdrawal process and was on the cusp of the full refund period, and did not receive confirmation from staff whether her ISA was void.
- One WEB student reported being accidentally removed from Slack while being on hiatus due to medical leave, and emails to support@lambdaschool.com were unanswered and they had to tweet at staff.
- One WEB student reported being removed after politely inquiring Student Success staff of why student policies on flex and other academic policies were being changed mid-cohort for students who already started their cohorts.

#### ISA Triggers & Term Ambiguity

- One WEB student reports that their ISA was triggered after getting a non-programming customer support job at a tech company.
- One WEB student reports that their ISA was triggered after switching from the full-time to part-time course and just hitting the \$50K threshold, citing incorrect information on when the trigger would happen that was disseminated in the #isa channel.

### Instructor Horror Stories

### Lies About Career Support

### Sketchy Behaviors Reported by Employers & Hiring Managers

### Other Sketchy Behaviors

### Lambda School's Founder Austen Allred

### Press

- [Wired](https://www.wired.com/story/how-we-learn-lambda-income-sharing-agreements/)
- [Business Insider - BPPE](https://www.businessinsider.com/lambda-school-california-state-law-coding-bootcamp-y-combinator-2019-8)
- [Business Insider - Cult](https://www.businessinsider.com/lambda-school-online-coding-bootcamp-y-combinator-cult-2019-10)
- [The Information](https://www.theinformation.com/articles/lambda-schools-growing-pains-big-buzz-student-complaints)
- [Education Dive](https://www.educationdive.com/news/running-without-state-approval-lambda-school-shows-challenge-of-regulating/570906/)
- [The Verge](https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/11/21131848/lambda-school-coding-bootcamp-isa-tuition-cost-free)
- [The Information - Executive Departures](https://www.theinformation.com/briefings/4e8972)
- [The Verge - Edly](https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/12/21135134/lambda-school-students-edly-isa-debt-swapping-partnership-shares-investors)
- [NYMag](https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2020/02/lambda-schools-job-placement-rate-is-lower-than-claimed.html)
- [Bloomberg](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-02-25/investing-in-a-coding-school-graduate-could-get-you-13-a-year)
